[docu-2785] Custom reports (#5098)
Kong/docs.konghq.com: app/konnect/analytics/use-cases.md

### Latency for an API over the last 30 days

At this point, you have multiple reports that display how your company's APIs are performing generally.

Your company determines that it is critical that payments are processed quickly using the Payments API, so you decide to generate a report that will tell you how performant the Payment API is over the last 30 days. To build the report, set the following options in the UI:

* **Name**: Payment API - Latency (last 30 days)
* **Date/Time**: Last 30 days
* **Chart type**: Line chart
* **Select a metric**: Response latency (p99)
* **Group by**: Service
* **Choose granularity**: Daily
* **Entity Selection**: Payment 

Add a filter for the Payment API. Click on **Add Filter**, then set the following options:
 
* **Filter by**: Service
* **Operator**: In
* **Filter value**: Payment

[screenshot of finished report]

This report can provide your stakeholders with the answers to questions like:

* How performant has my API been over the last 30 days?
* Is my Payment API processing payments quickly enough?
* Are there any performance outliers?

## Conclusion 

> You now have reports that you can use to track the KPIs identified earlier:
> 
> * **Number of requests:** The following reports all display the request count for your APIs:
>     * "API usage (last 30 days)"
>     * "Daily Accounts API Usage (last 30 days)"
>     * "Account API - RPM (last 30 days)"
>     * "API Usage by Application (last 30 days)"
> * **Error response rate:** 
>     * The "API usage (last 30 days)" report displays if there are any errors or issues that might be impacting the number of requests the API is receiving.
> * **Average throughput:** The following reports all display the number of requests your APIs can handle per second:
>     * "API usage (last 30 days)"
>     * "Daily Accounts API Usage (last 30 days)"
>     * "Account API - RPM (last 30 days)"
>     * "API Usage by Application (last 30 days)"
> * **Latency:** 
>     * The "Payment API - Latency (last 30 days)" report displays how performant the Payment API is.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After completing these example scenarios, you should have a better understanding of how you can use a variety of metrics to collect analytics on KPIs with {{site.konnect_short_name}} custom reports. Additionally, you now know how to use information gathered from those reports, such as anomalies, to further drill down into what is causing the problem. 
```
@angel @lena-larionova Would this work or should I go into more specifics?

* How performant has my API been over the last 30 days?
* Is my Payment API processing payments quickly enough?
* Are there any performance outliers?

## Share reports

Now that you have your reports ready, you might want to share them with your stakeholders. 

You can do this in a few different ways:

* Grant your stakeholders the Analytics Viewer [role](/konnect/org-management/teams-and-roles/teams-reference) in 
the {{site.konnect_short_name}} organization to access reports in a read-only state, 
or the Analytics Editor role to let them customize the reports for themselves.
* Take screenshots of the reports and share the images.
* Export any of the reports you created into CSV files. This gives you raw data that you can 
plug into any of your external dashboards or visualization services.

    Open one of the reports you created, then from the **Reports Actions** dropdown, select **Export Report as CSV**.

## Conclusion 

After completing these example scenarios, you should have a better understanding of how you can use a variety of metrics to collect analytics on KPIs with {{site.konnect_short_name}} custom reports. 

> Additionally, you can use these reports to find and solve problems in resource allocation, optimization, and performance. You now know how to use the information gathered from those reports, such as anomalies, to further drill down into what is causing the problem. This information can then be presented to stakeholders to ensure your APIs are secure, performant, and stable. 

Reviewer 2: I suggest taking a more narrative tone to keep it consistent with the rest of the page. Something like:

> Now that you've created these reports and gleaned some insights from the data, you can be more informed when you talk to your stakeholders. 
>
> You learned that:
> * One of the APIs was {doing something}
> * {During some date range, this other thing was happening}
> * Users are focusing on {X applications}, which means that {something}
> * Something else maybe
>
> You can share the reports and dig into any anomalies, performance, or stability issues, or let them draw conclusions based on further analysis.

Reviewer: @lena-larionova I like your ideas about changing the tone and "You can share the reports and dig into any anomalies, performance, or stability issues, or let stakeholders draw conclusions based on further analysis."

For the "You learned" bullet points, I think those would be good for a regular tutorial, but since the outcome of this tutorial is more "you learned how to think about custom reports so you can now go out and make your own" instead of  "here's these specific reports that you created", I wonder if those should be phrased differently? I like that idea for a list though. Maybe something like:

> Now that you've created these reports and gleaned some insights from the data, you can be more informed when you talk to your stakeholders.

>  You learned that:

> - Custom reports can be used to view metrics like number of requests, latency, and throughput
> - You can use information from reports to dig deeper into any anomalies, performance, or stability issues to determine what is causing the problem
> - After you create a report, you can export and share the reports with stakeholders to let them draw conclusions based on further analysis

> If you want to continue learning about ways to use {{site.konnect_short_name}} to analyze data, see [Analyze Services and Routes](/konnect/analytics/services-and-routes/). 

Not sure about that last doc link, but something like that that would help them continue learning or move on to something else that's related.

Reviewer 2: Love this - let's go with it.

---
title: Report Use Cases
content_type: tutorial
badge: plus
---

Custom reporting in {{site.konnect_saas}} gives you the power to monitor your API data in detail and export that data to CSV. 
Let's go through some example situations where you could leverage custom reports.

In this scenario, you just joined an organization as an API product manager. 
Your first task is to create a few reports that model business KPIs so that the executive team and investors have a grasp on the state of the organization's APIs. 

> You've selected the following KPIs because they would give a brief, but wholistic, understanding of the APIs: 

Reviewer 3: Is it `wholistic` or `holistic`?

* **Number of requests:** This metric measures the total number of requests made to the API. 
This is good for understanding total usage of an API, and can potentially be used to uncover scalability requirements. 

> * **Average throughput:** Throughput is the measurement of the number of requests an API can handle per second. 

Reviewer 3: I am not sure about using "average" in this concent and also "per second". We do have a "throughput" metric but that's not average it's just counts the number of request **per minute**. Maybe remove the "average" and change "seconds" to "minutes".

That's probably more for what you may want to look into https://www.moesif.com/blog/technical/api-metrics/API-Metrics-That-Every-Platform-Team-Should-be-Tracking/#4-request-per-minute-rpm.

* **Latency:** This metric measures the time it takes for the API to respond to a request. 
This can be a good measure of the user experience when a user makes a request to an API.

## Build reports 

Let's build some custom reports by navigating to {% konnect_icon analytics %} **Analytics** in the {{site.konnect_short_name}} menu, then **Reports**.

This brings you to a list of all custom reports in the organization. From here, click **New Report** to get started.

### Total number of requests across APIs over the last 30 days

To build a report that displays the total number of requests across all of your APIs over the last 30 days, set the following options in the UI: 

> * **Name**: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Name**:  API usage (last 30 days)
```

* **Horizontal Bar Chart**
* **Date/Time**: Last 30 days

> * **Metric**: Request count

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Select a metric**: Request count
```

> * **Group By**: Service

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Group by**: Service
```

> * **Select a metric**: Request count

Reviewer 3: `Request Count`

![API usage (last 30 days)](/assets/images/docs/konnect/custom-reports/total-api-requests.png){:.image-border}

This report can provide your stakeholders with the answers to questions like:

* How many requests were made to the API during the current month? 
* How does this month compare to the previous months? 
* Which service receives the most requests?

The data can be used to support other types of exploratory questions about your API: 

* What is the most popular service? 
* Are there spikes in requests across months? 
* Are there any errors or issues that might be impacting the number of requests our API is receiving? 

### Daily API usage for an API over the last 30 days

From the previous report, you determine that the Accounts API is receiving the most traffic. 
You don't know whether this is a cause for concern or not, so you decide to take a closer look.

To gain further insight into the Accounts API, let's build a report that displays the number of requests per day for the Accounts API over the last 30 days. 
Set the following options in the UI:

* **Name**: Daily Accounts API Usage (last 30 days)
* **Chart type**: Line chart
* **Date/Time**: Last 30 days

> * **Metric**: Request count

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* **Select a metric**: Request count
```

> * **Select a metric**: Request count

Reviewer 3: `Request Count`

* **Group by**: Service
* **Then by**: None

> Add a filter for the Account API. Click on **Add Filter**, then set the following options:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Add a filter for the Accounts API. Click on **Add Filter**, then set the following options:
```

* **Filter by**: Service
* **Operator**: In
* **Filter value**: Accounts API (or your own API name)

> ![Daily Accounts API Usage (last 30 days)](/assets/images/docs/konnect/custom-reports/total-usage-accounts-api-30.png){:.image-border}

Reviewer 3: The filter badge (the blue rectangle with `Account` in it is not correct. It should read `Service In (Account API)`. Is that on purpose?

Now that you know what day or days this spike happened on, let's dig a little deeper. 
Edit the report to switch the metric from **Request Count** to **Requests per Minute**.

Your configuration should now look like this, with the filter unchanged:

* **Date/Time**: Last 30 days

> * **Metric**: Requests Per Minute

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* **Select a metric**: Requests Per Minute
```

* **Group by**: Service
* **Then by**: None

> ![Daily Accounts API Usage (last 30 days)](/assets/images/docs/konnect/custom-reports/total-api-usage-by-application-minute.png)

Reviewer: This screenshot looks like it's still by day instead of minute

> ![Daily Accounts API Usage (last 30 days)](/assets/images/docs/konnect/custom-reports/total-api-usage-by-application-minute.png){:.image-border}

Reviewer 3: Same feedback as in the previous comment. The filter badge is not correct.

Reviewer 3: Also, the metric selected in the image is "Request Count" but it should be "Request per Minute".

These reports can provide your stakeholders with the answers to questions like:

* What does average traffic over time look like for this service?
* Are there any anomalies, such as spikes or drops in traffic?
* If there are anomalies, do they repeat? Are there any patterns in the data?
* If there's an issue with API traffic, has it been resolved or is it ongoing?

#### Comparing daily vs per minute traffic

> Where a daily report can help stakeholders understand overall demand for the account API, the per minute report provides a more detailed picture. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Where a daily report can help stakeholders understand overall demand for the Account API, the per minute report provides a more detailed picture. 
```

> Where a daily report can help stakeholders understand overall demand for the Accounts API, the per minute report provides a more detailed picture. 

Reviewer 4: Should we call out the limitation that we only show daily granularity for custom queries or for queries over 1 week?

By combining the two reports, you can provide a lot of insight into the usage and performance of your API. 

For example, if the Accounts API is seeing a high number of requests per day and per minute, the organization may need to explore upgrading the API to handle the load. 
Or, you may need to explore the current monetization policy to take advantage of the traffic.

If the Accounts API is seeing a low amount traffic per day, but the per minute report shows normal traffic, you could be dealing with a variety of situations: 

* Activity: The API is being used heavily during a specific part of the day. 
* Security: Bots, or scripts, could be attempting to misuse your API. 

> * Stability: If the API is experiencing technical issues, such as slow response times or errors, could be resulting in a large number of retries that spike the requests per minute. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Stability: If the API is experiencing technical issues, such as slow response times or errors, it could be resulting in a large number of retries that spike the requests per minute. 
```

### Total API usage by {{site.konnect_saas}} application over the last 30 days

> You can track requests, you can do it per minute, per day, and you can even differentiate it across different APIs. However, because {{site.konnect_saas}} allows applications to consume services, you need to be able to answer what applications drive the most traffic to your APIs. Applications can be anything, public web applications, mobile applications, internal services that consume APIs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can track requests per minute, per day, and even differentiate it across different APIs. However, because {{site.konnect_saas}} allows applications to consume services, you must be able to explain which applications drive the most traffic to your APIs. Applications can be anything: public web applications, mobile applications, and internal services that consume APIs.
```

To configure the {{site.konnect_saas}} to create a look back report of total traffic across different applications, set the following options in the UI: 

* **Name**: API Usage by Application (last 30 days)
* **Chart type**: Vertical bar chart
* **Date/Time**: Last 30 days

> * **Metric**: Request count

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Select a metric**: Request count
```

> * **Select a metric**: Request count

Reviewer 3: `Request Count`

* **Group by**: Service
* **Then by**: Application

![API Usage by Application (last 30 days)](/assets/images/docs/konnect/custom-reports/api-usage-by-application.png)

> This report can be used to highlight which applications users prefer, where to distribute resources, and combined with the other reports, you can now communicate application-level usage data to your stakeholders. This data can help answer questions about how your APIs are being consumed. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This report can be used to highlight which applications users prefer and where to distribute resources. Combined with the other reports, you can now communicate application-level usage data to your stakeholders. This data can help answer questions about how your APIs are being consumed. 
```

Some example scenarios where this type of report would be useful are: 

* Security: If you find that a particular application is generating more traffic than expected, you can assess its security to ensure that it wont be a potential risk for the organization. 
* Monetization: If you have a monetization strategy, knowing which applications are actually consuming the data can help you allocate resources to make financial decisions. 
* Innovation: You can identify API usage patterns and trends using these reports, which can help you allocate resources and make development decisions. 

### Latency for an API over the last 30 days

At this point, you have multiple reports that display how your company's APIs are performing generally.

Your company determines that it is critical that payments are processed quickly using the Payments API, so you decide to generate a report that will tell you how performant the Payment API is over the last 30 days. To build the report, set the following options in the UI:

* **Name**: Payment API - Latency (last 30 days)
* **Date/Time**: Last 30 days
* **Chart type**: Line chart

> * **Select a metric**: Response latency (p99)

Reviewer 3: `Response Latency (p99)`

* **Group by**: Service
* **Choose granularity**: Daily
* **Entity Selection**: Payment 

> Add a filter for the Payment API. Click on **Add Filter**, then set the following options:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Add a filter for the Payment API. Click **Add Filter**, then set the following options:
```

 
* **Filter by**: Service
* **Operator**: In
* **Filter value**: Payment

> ![Payment API - Latency (last 30 days)](/assets/images/docs/konnect/custom-reports/payment-api-latency.png){:.image-border}

Reviewer 3: Filter badge is not correct as stated above.

This report can provide your stakeholders with the answers to questions like:

* How performant has my API been over the last 30 days?
* Is my Payment API processing payments quickly enough?
* Are there any performance outliers?

## Share reports

Now that you have your reports ready, you might want to share them with your stakeholders. 

You can do this in a few different ways:

* Grant your stakeholders the Analytics Viewer [role](/konnect/org-management/teams-and-roles/teams-reference) in 
the {{site.konnect_short_name}} organization to access reports in a read-only state, 
or the Analytics Editor role to let them customize the reports for themselves.
* Take screenshots of the reports and share the images.
* Export any of the reports you created into CSV files. This gives you raw data that you can 
plug into any of your external dashboards or visualization services.

>     Open one of the reports you created, then from the **Reports Actions** dropdown, select **Export Report as CSV**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Open one of the reports you created, then from the **Reports Actions** drop-down, select **Export Report as CSV**.
```
